git remote add origin https://github.com/DeepakKumarDKN/Git-By-Kunal-Khuswaha.git


git : git is just a git command 
remote : remote mean working with url .
add: means adding a new url 
origin : means what is the name of the url that we are going to add.

git remote -v 
--------------
this will give all all the url attached to a specefic project.


git push origin main
--------------------
push : push mean pushing all the changes we have made in our project. 

origin: origin mean to which url we are going to push.
main : to which branch we are going to push.

branches
--------
why do we want branches.
-------------------------
so whenever we are woking on a project so we have to do a lot of things like adding some feature and resolving a bug, so always maintain a separate branch for that

we should never commit on the main brach or the  master branch. previously it was master now it was main.

because if we are working on a open source project and you have done some changes but the code which you hae worked upon re not yet being finalized there may be some errors thats why we should always create s separate branch for the code which are not finalized so that the main branch will not get affected.
 
to create a branch we have to use a command. 

git branch feature

we can see a new branch will be created with the name feature.


What is HEAD.
--------------
Head is just a pointer that says all the new commits will be made is going to be added on the HEAD.
 
so when i will create a new branch at that time HEAD will point out towards the new branch we have made and hance all the commits we are making will be added to the new branch (feature)


move into main branch and do a commit:
---------------------------------------
git checkout main. 
git commit.

how to mearge feature branch code with main:
--------------------------------------------
because the person working on a main branch have some diffrent code and the person working on feature branch have a diffrent code. and the feature branch has written some code which is finalized and it is yet to be added to the main branch.

git merge feature
now the new branch we have created is the part of the main branch.


working with existing projects on github:
------------------------------------------
suppose there is project on the github and that peoject is not in your github account. 

can we do any kind of changes in that project .. right now ita a big now we cannot make any kind of changes as we dont have any access to that account.

but wecan fork that particular project mean creating a copy of that project in my own account.

so from where i have forked this project thats is known as upstream url by convenction.

git remote add upstream 'url'


origin url is my personal url and upstream url is from where i have forked it.

what is the need of going for checkout
---------------------------------------
if we are creating another branch then we have to checkout that branch so that the head will point out to that branch.

and whatever commits we will do will go and added to that branch.
after doing checkout all the commits we will do that will get added to the new branch we have created.

Pull Request 
------------
Note: Never commit on main branch create a new branch for whatever changes 
you will made .

create a new branch
-------------------
git branch Deepak
git checkout Deepak 

we have to do use checkout with branch name now the head will point towards 
Deepak all the commits we will make add to deepak untill and and unless we change our branch
to main. 

git add . 
git commit -m "commit will add to deepak branch"

git log 

git log will show our commits history. 

so now we will see two commits one is for deepak branch and one is for main branch.

so now i will go for git push origin deepak

so now whatever changes i have made in my respective branch (Deepak branch) i will
push those changes and merge into main project main branch.

the mergin will happen via pull request.

Note: 
One branch One pull request.